# JARVIS

This repo provides documentation for how to use JARVIS.

## Calibration

### Creating a new calibration dataset

1. Collect an Intrinsics dataset using the workflow named `CollectIntrinsicsDataset`. First, set a unique `Path` where the dataset will be recorded (e.g. `C:\Data\imova\calibration\AnnotationTool\{todays-date}`) replacing with the actual date. The data from the workflow will be saved to a folder named `Intrinsics` inside of the path. The workflow is designed to wait for 5 seconds, and then collect 30 seconds of video at 20 FPS. To begin collecting data, press `Shift+F2`. Go through each camera that is setup on the rig and collect a new video for each camera. Make sure to update the `SelectCameraStream` property for each new camera/video that is recorded. You can inspect all of the cameras simultaneously by opening the `ImageVisualizer` node, and you can inspect which specific camera is actively recorded by opening the `RecordCameraStreams` node. When finished, check the path you used for the folder `Intrinsics` and inside it, make sure that you have a video saved for each camera on the setup.

2. Collect an Extrinsics dataset using the workflow named `CollectExtrinsicsDataset`. Use the same path that was used for the previous workflow. The workflow will save data  to a folder inside of the path called `Extrinsics`. When collecting extrinsics data, you need to pick a primary camera which will serve as the main camera for all camera pairs, and then each recording will have a secondary camera relative to the primary camera. **Note**: 2 cameras that are facing eachother should never be paired together, in which case a third camera is needed. Similar to the previous workflow, pressing `Shift+F2` will begin acquisition, where there is an initial delay of 5 seconds followed by 30 seconds of video data acquisition at 20 FPS. Once you have picked the primary camera, go through each secondary camera and collect a paired recording between the primary and secondary camera. A pair of videos will be saved inside the `Extrinsics` folder, named "{primary}-{secondary}" according to which cameras were selected. When finished, you should have a folder for each pair of cameras and inside there will be 2 videos corresponding to each camera within the pair. Ensure each camera has at least one pairing with another camera.

3. Launch the `AnnotationTool` application and select `Create new calibration` from the menu. From here, you need to fill out the fields appropriately. Give the calibration dataset a unique name (`MyAnnotationToolCalibration`) and select the save path (e.g. `C:\Data\imova\calibration\AnnotationTool\`). Select `Yes` for `Seperate Recordings for Intrinsics`. Set the intrinsics folder path to the `Intrinsics` folder and set the extrinsics folder path to the folder named `Extrinsics` that were created in the previous steps. Once these are set, you should press the `Update Camera Names` button and the application will automatically detect and populate the interface using all of the cameras and camera pairings that were present in the data. Double check that these names match with what you expect based on the previous steps.
Leave the `Calibration Settings` to their default. In the `Checkerboard Layout` options, change the board configuration accordingly. For the videos we previously collected, we used the following settings:
    - Board type: Charuco
    - Charuco pattern: DICT_4X4_50
    - Pattern width: 8
    - Pattern height: 6
    - Side length: 60
    - Aruco marker length: 45
Change these to match whatever charuco board you are using for calibration. Once all of that is ready, press the `Calibrate` button - a window will appear showing the progress of calibrating intrinsics/extrinsics across all cameras. When finished, you will see a plot showing the average reprojection error for each camera during the intrinsics and extrinsics calibration procedure. You can also ensure that calibration was successful by navigating to the path provided above and inspecting each of the `.yaml` files associated with each camera.

## Analyzing a multi-camera dataset

1. Collect a multi-camera dataset using the workflow `CollectMultiCameraDataset`. Set the name of the output data folder to the location you wish to save the data (e.g. `C:\Data\imova\jarvis`). Give the experiment a unique `SubjectID` or use an existing one (e.g. `MyMultiCameraDataset`). The workflow is set to collect 30 seconds of data with an initial delay of 2 seconds, but can be updated to change these values accordingly. Press `Shift+F2` to begin acquisition across all cameras. The workflow will create a folder located at "{data pat}/{subject ID}" using a timestamp based on the start of acquisition. Inside of the output folder, there will be a video for each of the cameras on the setup.

2. Launch the `AnnotationTool` and select the `Create new dataset` option. Once here, give your dataset a unique name (e.g. `MyAnnotationToolDataset`) and set the output path (e.g. `C:\Data\imova\jarvis`). You can change the number of framesets you wish to label by changing the `Framesets to extract per segment`. Select `Add Recording` and navigate to the output folder that was created in the previous step. Next, the skeleton/keypoints are defined in the following sections. Select either `LoadPreset` to load one of the 2 existing options (`Hand`, `Rodent`), or create a new skeleton by manually entering into `Entities`, `Keypoints`, and `Skeleton`. Once ready, select `Create`. This will create a folder in the output path using the dataset name, inside of which will have a `.yaml` file and a folders containing the names of each recording session.

3. Once the dataset has been created, select `Annotate dataset`. In the option to `Select Dataset`, select the path to the `.yaml` file that was created in the previous step. You should see the interface populate with segments and cameras. You must click on one of the segments inside of the `Select Segment` window. Afterwards, press the `Load Dataset` button to begin annotation. Inside of the annotation window, you will see all of the cameras appearing in the left window box. You will also see the currently selected index of the framesets in the dataset. Besides each camera is a number which corresponds to the number of keypoints annotated in the frame relative to the total number of keypoints. Each keypoint only needs to be labelled in 2 seperate camera views for any given frameset, at which point the application will automatically triangulate the labelled keypoint to all other camera views. It is import that for each frameset, all keypoints are either labelled or have undergone reprojection/triangulation. All of the cameras must be calibrated in order for triangulation to work. To load the calibration parameters, select the big + button at the bottom left underneath the `Reprojection Tool` option. Select the folder containing the calibration parameters that was created in the previous section. Once selected, you should see a live view of the reprojection error as you label keypoints on each of the frames, at which point labelling the same keypoint in any 2 camera views will automatically triangulate to all remaining camera views.

4. Check that all of the frames are annotated correctly. When the program tries to triangulate points across frames, the reprojected point can be off by quite a large margin, so it is important to go through every frame regardless and make sure there are no obvious errors.

5. Once all of the frames/framesets are annotated, this part is finished and it is safe to close out the program or head back to the main window (by pressing the house button at the top right corner of the window).

## Exporting a Trainingset (including how to combine multiple annotation datasets into a single training dataset)

1. Select the last option on the annotation tool called `Export Trainingset`. In the top left section called `Configuration`, provide a name for the trainingset and a path. Currently, everything is being saved into the `C:\Git\JARVIS-HybridNet\datasets` path. It is also common to name the trainingset something that relates to the original dataset (e.g. `<Name-of-Dataset>_Trainingset`). For combining multiple datasets into a single trainingset, the convention being used is to call it `CombinedTrainingset_<Dataset-Name-1>+<Dataset-Name-2>+...`. Make sure that the trainingset type is set to 3D for training a 3D tracking model. You can change the properties of the trainingset (validation/test split, seed, etc.) if you wish, but the default values are pretty standard.

2. In the `Datasets` section on the right, this is where you will add the data that has been annotated in the previous step. Press the + button and select the `.yaml` file associated with the annotation dataset, located inside the annotation project folder. When adding a dataset, make sure it has been completely annotated, otherwise JARVIS will not work. You can confirm whether the entire dataset has been annotated by looking at one of the `.csv` files located within the annotated projects dataset folder (it lives inside one of the camera folders next to the individually sampled images). If there are missing annotations, you will see an empty row. If you wish to train a model on a dataset that has not been fully annotated, you can run the `scripts/remove_not_annotated.py` Python script using `uv run scripts/remove_not_annotated.py` in a terminal, and this will remove any unannotated images and labels in the CSV file. Beware using this method, as once the script is run, there is no way to go back to the previous state without performing the dataset creation/annotation steps above once again. You can always make a backup of the folder and operate on this backup instead.

When adding datasets, you can select multiple annotated datasets, which will have the effect of combining all of them into a single trainingset. Once all of the datasets have been selected, press the `Create trainingset` button at the bottom left. Afterwards, it is safe to exit the annotation tool.

## Running JARVIS

1. Open the folder located at `C:\Git\JARVIS-HybridNet` in VS code. Open a terminal by selecting the `New terminal` option under `Terminal` in the top menu. Type `uv run jarvis launch` into the terminal, which will start the JARVIS web interface and open up a browser window. You will first be prompted to create a project. Give the project a unique name. In the section called `Dataset3D`, copy the path to the trainingset folder that was created in the previous step. When ready, press the `Create Project` button. This will create a new project with the name chosen in the `C:\Git\JARVIS-HybridNet\projects` folder. In the JARVIS interface, select the project created in the dropdown window on the left hand side of the window under `Select project to be loaded`.

2. Once selected, the interface will update and display several menu options on the left. The first menu option is `Training`, and below are sub menus that are specific to training different parts of the JARVIS model. With `Train all` selected, You will then see some configuration options for training the different modules of the JARVIS model (CenterDetect, KeypointDetect, HybridNet). You can increase or decrease the number of epochs assigned to each module, but the default values are okay. You can also select a pretrained model to use by selecting one of the options under `pretraining to use`. These pretrained models come from [here](https://github.com/JARVIS-MoCap/JARVIS-HybridNet/releases/tag/v1.0). To add a new pretrained model, download the zip folder and extract the model files (`.pth` files) into a unique folder inside the `C:\Git\JARVIS-HybridNet\pretrained` folder. Placing one of these model files into the folder will update the options available for selecting a pretrained model. When ready, select the button `Train` to start training the model. This will take some time, possibly a few hours depending on how many epochs and much training data is in the trainingset.

3. Once training is finished, go to the menu option titled `Prediction`. In the main window, set the `Recording path` to a folder containing a multi camera recording. Leave the `Weights for CenterDetect` and `Weights for HybridNet` to `latest`, or explicitly set these to the `.pth` files that were created after training and placed inside the project folder, under `models`. When ready, select the `Predict` button. This will perform model prediction over entire multicamera dataset. The results for the predictions will be saved inside the project folder, in another folder named `predictions`.

4. Once prediction is finished, select the `Visualisation` menu option from the left hand side. Choose the prediction dataset you wish to create a visualisation for, and then press the `Visualise` button. This will then generate annotations on the recorded videos. They will be placed into a folder called `visualization` inside of the project folder.  